- [Instructor] As we're thinking about preparing
our Spring Boot application with profiles
for various environments,
once our application hits production,
we want to know about its health.
And monitoring the health of our application
and production is very important.
Ideally, we want to catch issues
before customers or users start complaining.
Monitoring can as well help you evaluate
the health of your application,
your server infrastructure,
and additionally any unexpected errors that may rise.
The Spring documentation tells us
that Spring Boot includes a number of features
to help you monitor and manage your application
when you push it to production.
This is where Spring Boot Actuator comes in.
At this point, you may not be familiar
with what an Actuator is,
but the Spring documentation tells us
that an Actuator comes from a manufacturing term
that refers to a mechanical device for moving
or controlling something.
Actuators can generate a large amount
of motion from a small change.
Spring Boot Actuators similarly
allow you to monitor your health endpoints,
management over HTTP or JMX,
control your loggers and much more.
And what is cool about this sub project
is that you even create custom actuator endpoints.
Let's go ahead and add some health endpoints
to our current project.
For this video,
we are using 01_04_begin code base in IntelliJ.
Once the project code base is open in IntelliJ,
we're going to go ahead and open our build.gradle file.
Inside of this, we're going to add implementation org
springframework boot:springboot starter-actuator.
We'll save that, and with that added, we'll go down
to our terminal, we'll type gradle clean build.
With the project build, type java -jar -Dspring
profiles.active.
We'll set this to prod, point in our build libs directory,
and of course the application.jar.
Hit enter.
With the project running,
we're going to go ahead and open up our browser window again.
I'm going to refresh and here at the top
I'm going to change this to actuator health and hit enter.
This gives us a simple JSON response that says status up.
This actuator health endpoint was given
to us for free by adding the dependency in our build file.
Okay, so if we go back to our application.properties
we can get a little bit more fine grain detail
in this by adding a couple
of entries to our default application.properties.
Now we can add these to only our prod properties
if we want them enabled under prod profil,
but for environment testing,
you might want to go ahead and add them to the default.
You might have this discussion with your team
if it's important.
We can keep actuator endpoint separate
on a different port as well to provide isolation
from the main service endpoint
by adding the following.
We'll type management.server.port
and I'll set this to 9001.
We're also going to change the default port
that the application runs on.
We'll do this by typing server.port equals 9000.
We'll save it.
And then finally, to show more fine grain details
in the general health endpoint, we'll add one more property
and this will be management.endpoint.health.show-details.
And this will equal always, which will show more details.
We'll save it.
Go ahead Control + C, we'll build the application again.
When it's done, we'll use the prod profile
and let's notice a couple
of things first about what we see in the logs.
First of all, we see that Tomcat started on ports
9001 with a context path of this.
And if we scroll up, we see that it also started on 9000.
So let's go ahead and open our browser window again.
We'll change this to 9000, hit enter.
This gives us our webpage.
If we try to add to this, the actuator health.
it should give us a 404 and it does.
We can see there's a 404.
Now this is because we've changed the port
for health to 9001.
We'll do that now and hit enter.
And now we see a more robust list of health indications.
We see that the application is up.
We see that the disk base metrics.
And if we had Spring Boot starter DB added
in our gradle dependencies,
we would even see some database metrics here as well.